We are so excited to welcome students back to our hallways for the 2022-23 school year on September 5th, 2023.  The last few weeks have been busy as we planned for the arrival of our students back into our building. Staff were at the school this past week working on several professional development modules and procedures to ensure we are ready to receive your children this school year. The administration team in addition has been busy interviewing and hiring staff to fill leaves. 
Prior to Tuesday’s start, we wanted to pass along a few important information items and updates.  Listed below are a few reminders about back-to-school, any changes/updates and where to find further information. We greatly appreciate your ongoing patience and support as we continue to work through the start-up process.
Schedule Information
Start of the school day remains as: 8:05 a.m. (supervised entry from 7:55 to 8:05)
Lunch remains as: 10:50- 11:50 a.m. (there is a Lunch  A and B schedule for eating and outdoor time)
Student dismissal remains as: 2:35 p.m. 
Timetables and School Demographics
We are very excited to be opening our doors to around 500 students this year across all Grades K-8 with the Gifted, PLP and SLC programs remaining at our school as well! We are currently sitting with 31 teachers, 2 E.C.E.’s, 6 E.A.’s (2 to each PLP and SLC class and 2 to support students in both mainstream and gifted classes across the school), who will be supporting 23 classrooms across the school.  There are 2 Kindergarten classes with E.C.E.’s and 1 under 16 Kindergarten class with just a teacher.  We have 13 mainstream classes from Grade 1-8 and 6 Gifted classes from Grade 4-8.  Within our teaching allotment that we have a 0.7 part time teacher Librarian, 1.6 S.E.R.T.’s (Special Education Resource Teachers) supporting students. Your administration team continues to be Mrs. Price (Principal), and Mr. O’Connor (Vice Principal) in the office.  Everyone will be happy to see the cheerful Mrs. Christmas back as our Head Secretary and Mrs. Billik as the permanent part time secretary supporting her. 
 
You should receive student timetables within the first week of classes. Families can also access their child’s timetable through the Parent Portal next week. Throughout the day your child will have 2 recess and 1 lunch break.  Morning recess is for 15 minutes from 9:55 to 10:10 a.m. and afternoon recess is from 1:10 to 1:25 p.m.  All Primary students (Lunch A groups) and students in Portables will eat lunch inside for the first 30 minutes and go outside for the last 30 minutes.  All Junior and Intermediate students (Lunch B group) in homeroom classes inside the building and on the Second floor will go outside for the 30 minutes and eat lunch inside their homeroom classrooms for the last 30 minutes.   
 
Recess time details
At Jack Miner P.S. our outdoor recess time in the school yard is organized by Divisions (Kindergarten, Primary, and Junior/Intermediate).   Each division listed above in brackets has their own designated play space.  Our Kindergarten students and students in our PLP class have their own fenced in area that they access.  Our Primary (Grade 1-3) students have a designated pavement and field area that only children in Grades 1-3 are to play in.  This area is the small fenced in field and the adjacent portion of pavement up to Door 4.    Our Junior (Grades 4,5,6) and Intermediate students (Grades 7&8) share the same pavement (remaining pavement area that exists where the Primary area ends by the basketball nets) and field (large back field) portion of the yard.  None of the areas overlap, but some are adjacent to one another, which means that the Junior/Intermediate area differs from the Primary area. Students will eat snacks and lunch in their homeroom classroom. Food sharing is not permitted, and we ask that all empty food containers and garbage such as wrappers and uneaten food are taken back home with the student.  This helps to ensure our building continues to be Eco Conscious and you as a parent can see what your child has eaten over the course of the school day.
Kiss N Ride
Although we are designated as a walking school for all of our mainstream classes,  the Kiss N’ Ride will be open this year for families who need to drop their students off by vehicle. Bussing to Jack Miner P.S. is not available for students unless they are out of area and attending our school for either the Gifted Program classes or our PLP (Practical Learning Program) and SLC (Structured Learning Class) classes.  We recommend walking for all in area students.  Starting the day off with exercise helps to get the body and brain ready for learning.  In addition, it gives students and opportunity to interact with others outside of learning time. 
Kiss and Ride is open to all families but not generally recommended for families with Kindergarten students.  We find that some of our Early Years students struggle going across the yard without an adult, especially at the start of the year.  The Kiss and Ride will be closed until supervision begins at 7:55. We ask families to leave the pylons in place and wait for entry until a staff member or designated parent volunteers are present to ensure a supervised and safe entry for our students accessing the Kiss and Ride loop.  At no point during entry and dismissal time should families in vehicles enter at the top of the driveway or park in our lot.  There are only a couple approved families who have been granted access due to mitigating circumstances.  Our busses enter at this point, and we need to keep this area as free from congestion and busyness as possible.  All buses go through the straightway instead of going around the loop and we ask you to yield to them as they are present at a junction you are at and allow them to exit first before proceeding in and through the loop.  For those that are eligible and taking the bus, pick up and drop off is at the front of the school. 
When using the Kiss N’ Ride loop, families are expected to pull into the second driveway entrance to the school on the north side at 7:55 when it is safe to do so.  Please do not enter/exit when a bus is exiting, or students are crossing on the sidewalk.  Once it is safe to enter the loop, we ask that you keep your student(s) in the vehicle until you reach the area for drop off.  The drop off area starts just after the area where it bends, near the primary pavement. The number of parent volunteers will determine how many cars can be exited at a time.  If only a staff member is out there, then it will be one car at a time.   A staff member will be at the designated drop off location in an orange vest.  It is VERY IMPORTANT that students do not exit or enter vehicles until the staff member or parent volunteer in a vest comes to the car.  Students should NOT exit and enter vehicles at other points on school property for safety reasons.  Parking or dropping off on a side street is often likely a less congested and more expedient process.  Students will be required to unbuckle themselves before exiting the vehicles.  We ask that the driver always stay in the vehicle.  The staff member or parent volunteer will direct them where to go.  Once your student(s) leaves or enters the vehicle, you can exit the loop and turn right toward the baseball diamond. Please yield to buses as they exit the lot before you turn to exit yourself.  Students should NOT cross the parking lot at any point in time. If you have a Kindergarten student that you must drop off at Kiss and Ride and there is not an older sibling present to take them to their entry yard, please make sure that the adult is aware of this so that they can keep them with them until an older student or volunteer can escort them to their entry location.  If at dismissal time your child is not at the pickup location (at the bend), you will be required to exit the loop and re- enter in que.  Please refer to the image that Mr. O’Connor will send out on Monday which provides a visual of the Kiss N’ Ride procedure. 
Bussing
For those students eligible (out of area PLP, SLC and Gifted students) for bussing, services are provided by Durham Student Transportation Service (DSTS). They are responsible for routes (pick up and  drop off locations, timing), determining rider responsibilities/expectations and setting students up for bussing. You can find out more information on busing, including routes by visiting their website.
Dropping off students/Walking to School
Please arrange for your child to walk to school whenever possible. If you drive your child to school but do not access the Kiss and Ride, we ask that you please only park on a neighborhood street where there is permitted parking. We ask you to please ensure that you are NOT stopping along Whitburn on the North side in front of the school as this is a no stop/park zone and you can be ticketed.  We also ask that no u turns take place as this is unsafe and further adds to congestion.  
Supervision begins 10 minutes prior to the start of the school day, but bus unloading will occur 15 minutes prior to the start of school and 10-15 minutes after the end of school.  School parking lots and drop off areas will be closed off with pylons to all non-bus traffic during the arrival and departure of buses.
Students who are walking or being dropped off are encouraged to arrive no earlier than 10 minutes before the entry bell.  Prior to 7:55 there is no staff supervising on the yard or in the building. Supervision at 7:55 to 8:05 will be to monitor the various divisional yard locations.  We ask that families refrain from mingling on the yard as we want to ensure time for our students to build connections with their peers and minimize their comfort with “strangers” on the yard.  On the first day all homeroom teachers will be outside with a sign that contains their name so that you can find them.  There will also be pylons with class names on them, identifying the line up location for each class.  Please see maps that Mr. O’Connor will send out on Monday that shows these locations.  To avoid congestion and ensure an orderly entrance into the school, classes will line up and enter one class at a time in a designated order with their first period teacher at their designated door.
First Day Procedures
Staff will be prepared to welcome their students on the first day of school. There will be staff members at the front and back of the school if you do not know your child(ren)’s classroom teacher(s). You should plan your arrival no earlier than 7:55 a.m. when supervision begins. After the first day, once your child has found their way into their line up area, we ask parents to leave school property for the reasons listed earlier. Kindergarten students will enter the Kindergarten yard through their designated gate when their ECE opens the gate for them.  Kindergarten parents must not enter the “fenced yard” for entry or dismissal.  Children in Grades 1-3 should be picked up at the same location where they enter the building at the end of the day. If you are picking up students in Grades 4-8, please arrange a meeting place. We have many trees, fence posts, bike racks, pathways etc. that will allow for an individual location to be determined.
Please refer to the map that Mr. O’Connor will send on Monday to see where your child must enter/exit.
Entry and lates 
There is no “5 minute” warning bell. Instructional time begins at 8:05 a.m. in the morning and 11:50 p.m. after lunch. We ask that students (and students with an adult for those under Grade 4) come to the front of the school if they are late. A member of the office team will be situated in the front foyer, recording lates and afterwards the secretary will enter them into the system.  Late entries are processed in the front foyer one at a time.  You may find line-ups that could continue outside due to the number of students that may need to be checked in at one time. After the staff member in the foyer leaves, the front doors are locked and students will need to be buzzed in and come to the main office.  Children in Grades K-3 will need to have a parent waiting with them in the late line for safety reasons. 
In addition to late arrival procedures, all individuals who are not DDSB staff wishing to access the school site during school operating hours must hit the buzzer, state who they are and the purpose of their visit and wait in the front entrance vestibule for direction from the secretary before entering the school or school yard.
 Medication
Over the summer, students who require medication while at school, were contacted by Mr. O’Connor about bringing in new medication and were sent NEW forms to be filled out. We ask that parents please put all medication and NEWLY SIGNED forms in a large Ziploc bag, sealed with the child’s name and homeroom teacher on the bag. If you do not feel comfortable sending it in with your child, you can drop medication off at the office to either the secretary or one of the administrators (Principal or Vice Principal) starting at 8:10 a.m. Tuesday September 5th.  We ask that one person enters the vestibule at a time and waits for direction from a staff member before entering the building further. If you need a new medical form, please email Mr. O’Connor at colin.oconnor@ddsb.ca.
Class Placement Information 
Updated information on your child’s teacher for this school year became available on the Parent Portal starting Friday, September 1st only after the Returning Student verification form had been submitted.  The Returning Student Registration Forms are available to families via the Parent Portal.  We encourage all families to complete the Returning Student Registration Form for each child in their household to ensure families can access homeroom teacher information (available September 1). This information is ONLY available once the form is complete. If you need help accessing the Parent Portal, please refer to the FAQs before contacting the office for support. Staff spent a lot of time placing students in classes, with a consideration for multiple factors to ensure each class is balanced.  As professionals, we work collaboratively and put a great deal of thoughtful consideration into determining the best class placement for your child.  We consider many criteria when organizing new classes, including academic needs, work habits, learning skills and style, mixed groupings of abilities, group dynamics, social relationships, class size and Ministry criteria.  Please know that each student’s placement was individually and purposefully considered.  Our goal is to provide the optimal placement for every child to maximize learning for all.  We recognize that there can be a lot of anxiety regarding class placements, and we appreciate your support in helping your child work through this process.  Change can be scary, but it is not always bad.  It is our hope that each new school year can be looked upon as an opportunity to meet new classmates and develop new friendships.  At this point in time, we will not be making any changes to classes as one change often has a domino effect.  In the event of a reorganization, “new” requests will be considered at that point in time. At this point in time, our Primary classes are full and some over capacity so reshuffling may be directed by the DDSB.
Returning Student Verification Form
This annual information review and update ensures that your student’s school has the most up to date contact and consent information.
For students in Grade 7-12, the Returning Student Verification Form includes the 1:1 Chromebook Program Informed Consent (CPIC) which permits your student to receive or retain a Chromebook.  Without a completed CPIC, students cannot be given a Chromebook. 
If your student has SEA (Special Education Allotment)Technology, you will see the SEA Technology Informed Consent. This applies to students in all grades who have SEA Technology.
Links to the Parent Portal & login instructions are available on all DDSB School Websites & http://www.ddsb.ca
Click Here to Login to the Parent Portal
Please note: The Parent Portal and Returning Student Verification software works well on a tablet, laptop or computer.  The DDSB does not recommend using a Smartphone to access this system.
Click here for Help Documentation& Parent Portal Instructions
 Student Materials 
You may receive communication from your child's teacher about items that families can purchase at the beginning of the school year if you want your child to have their own personal items that do not need to be shared with others.   Any items provided to your child by the school will be shared items.  Teachers always appreciate donations but are NOT able to ask to have to provide items for your child to access teaching and learning.  Our consumable orders, always come in slowly, and so if you would like your child to have a wide range of personal materials, you may want to purchase your child their own supplies. 
Lunch and School Sign Out Procedure 
We ask you to fill out the survey that will be sent out about lunch hour on Wednesday the 6th.  Like last year, our lunch hour is split into two 30-minute intervals.  Group A will go outside to their designated divisional location and have their outdoor time for the first 30 minutes and eat in their classroom for the last 30 minutes.  Group B will be eating lunch inside for the first 30 minutes and then outside in their divisional location for the last 30 minutes. Please ensure that lunch is packed and in the school bag for the start of the school day. 
The eating portion of lunch at our school takes place in each child’s homeroom classroom where students are supervised by a lunchroom supervisor who goes in and out of many classes during their supervision time.  Students going home for lunch will exit through their designated door.  Students Grade 4 and up can go off on their own, but we are asking those students in Grades 3 and below to have a parent or designated person waiting for them in a designated area.  If you need an accommodation to this, we ask that you let both the teacher and school administration know.  If your child does go home for lunch, we ask that you have them return to the designated lunch return entry spot (the pathway by the park/baseball diamond) at 11:40 where they will be met by Mr. O’Connor or Mrs. Price.  This location is indicated on one of the maps to be sent out by Mr. O’Connor.
Some classes have allergy alerts, and these will be communicated to you as soon as the information has been collated so that you can plan accordingly to ensure that all food items are safe and permitted in your child(ren)’s classroom.  The lunch period is 1 hour in length.  30 minutes of time is permitted for eating and 30 minutes for “play”, which is typically outdoors when the weather permits.  We encourage all families that are able, to have their child(ren) go home for the eating portion of lunch.   
Please check the Lunch A and B schedule so that you can see when your child(ren)’s class eats lunch and when they have recess time.  If you are permitting your child in Grade 4-8 to sometimes stay and sometimes leave for lunch, then a dated note will be required for each day they are being given permission to leave school during the lunch hour.  Please remind students who are going to stores for lunch to pick up food, that we do not allow food to be brought on the school yard, and therefore all open food items (slushies, ice cream, treats) must be finished, secured, sealed, wrapped, and stored in their backpack prior to re-entry. 
We ask you to fill out the survey, that will be sent out during the first week of school, about lunch hour, prior Monday, September 11th.  Students going home for lunch will exit through their designated door.  Students Grade 4 and up can go off on their own, but we are asking those students in Grades 3 and below to have a parent or designated person waiting for them before they can be released.  If you need an accommodation to this, we ask that you let both the teacher and school administration know.  In addition to this lunch and dismissal survey, we ask all families in Grades K-3 to please fill in the hardcopy student pick up form that should come with your student on the first day.  These are to be returned to your child’s homeroom teacher by the end of this week to help us ensure strong safety measures are in place for dismissal.
Student Absences and Picking Up Early
If your child will be absent, arriving late or leaving school early, we ask parents/ guardians to report it to the school (just as you have always done) using the automated DDSB School Messenger system.
If you have not already done so, please be sure to visit the School Messenger website and create an account.   More information is available on the DDSB Website: https://www.ddsb.ca/en/our-schools/report-an-absence.aspx    
When you use the App, the office will be able to see a list of children and the times they will sign out and return to the building.  We will make our best efforts to watch the clock and call your child down to the office to be ready to meet you.   When you arrive to pick up your child, we ask that you hit the buzzer in the front door vestibule to let the secretary know you are here to sign your child out.  We thank you in advance for your cooperation and consideration regarding this matter.
Dropping Off Forgotten Items
If there is an important item that was forgotten at home and needs to be dropped off, we ask that you clearly label the item and buzz for it to be picked up in the front vestibule. To avoid interruptions to learning time, we kindly ask that this only occur when absolutely necessary.
Dismissal
Our plan for the end of day dismissal follows the same guiding principles as our other transition times.  We want to ensure that the process flows smoothly and in a safe manner.  Students will exit through their designated class door at the end of the day.   Those students in K-3 who have an older sibling or student who walks them home will wait for their sibling at their designated location.  If you are picking up your children, please be on time to ensure that this process goes smoothly.  Students will be dismissed once the bell rings.
Volunteers
Just a friendly reminder that all volunteers must have a current criminal reference check (within the last 6 months and include the Vulnerable Sector Screening) on file with the school.  If you need to update yours, please connect with Ms. Christmas who can provide you with a letter so that you can get an updated reference check at a reduced cost.
Mental Health and Well-Being
Mental health, well-being, equity and student learning is important to our school and there has never been a time when uniting these priorities has been more essential. School and classroom environments have an important impact on a student’s sense of belonging and overall mental health. Educators will be given resources that support the implementation of everyday strategies that foster strong positive and inclusive classroom practises that in turn lead to a mentally healthy classroom. They will first focus on The First 20 Days (and Beyond) of Creating Connection and Well-Being with students. Be sure to look out for some of these supports for families that will be shared on DDSB’s website and through social media. 
If you have any questions you can contact our school by phone at (905) 668-3249 or through email at JackMinerPS@ddsb.ca.  As always, we thank you for your continued partnership, patience and understanding as we work together for a safe return for all our students and families.